# 2 Data And Expressions
11 marks  
**to be committed to GitHub by 16th February**

1 Table of Student Grades  -- complete  
2 Computing Averages      -- complete  
3 Miles to Kilometers -- complete 
4 Square Calculations   -- complete  
5 Fraction   -- complete  

Please replace **todo** with **complete** when done.

Record your progress on the OOP Form on README.md.

---

For each question in the exercise, please either display the output generated by running the program, or the answer if the task is a question.


1 -  Write a Java program that prints a table with a list of at least 5 students together
with their grades earned (lab points, bonus points, and the total) in the format
below.
Note: The backslash is a special character used to denote an non-typeable character.
So it is expecting a code after it, such as "n" to print a newline. If you really do
want to print a backslash, then you must use two backslashes.
```
///////////////////\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
== Student Points ==
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\///////////////////

Name Lab Bonus Total
---- --- ----- -----
Joe   43 7 50
William 50 8 58
Mary Sue 39 10 49
```
The requirements for the program are as follows:

1. Print the border on the top as illustrated (using the slash and backslash
   characters).
2. Use tab characters to get your columns aligned and you must use the + operator both
   for addition and string concatenation.
3. Make up your own student names and points—the ones shown are just for illustration
   purposes. You need 5 names.
(2 marks)

public class question_1 {

        public static void main(String[] args) {

            // Storing student information

            // Student 1
            String name1 = "Rue";
            int lab1 = 45;
            int bonus1 = 5;
            int total1 = lab1 + bonus1;

            // Student 2
            String name2 = "Archer";
            int lab2 = 40;
            int bonus2 = 8;
            int total2 = lab2 + bonus2;

            // Student 3
            String name3 = "Maya Ray";
            int lab3 = 38;
            int bonus3 = 10;
            int total3 = lab3 + bonus3;

            // Student 4
            String name4 = "John";
            int lab4 = 50;
            int bonus4 = 7;
            int total4 = lab4 + bonus4;

            // Student 5
            String name5 = "Jake";
            int lab5 = 42;
            int bonus5 = 6;
            int total5 = lab5 + bonus5;

            // Printing table design headers
            // Top Border
            System.out.println("///////////////////////\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\");
            System.out.println("\t== Student Points ==");
            System.out.println("\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\//////////////////////");

            System.out.println();

            // Table Header
            System.out.println("Name\t\tLab\t\tBonus\t\tTotal");
            System.out.println("----\t\t---\t\t-----\t\t-----");

            // Student Data
            System.out.println(name1 + "\t\t\t" + lab1 + "\t\t" + bonus1 + "\t\t\t" + total1);
            System.out.println(name2 + "\t\t" + lab2 + "\t\t" + bonus2 + "\t\t\t" + total2);
            System.out.println(name3 + "\t" + lab3 + "\t\t" + bonus3 + "\t\t\t" + total3);
            System.out.println(name4 + "\t\t" + lab4 + "\t\t" + bonus4 + "\t\t\t" + total4);
            System.out.println(name5 + "\t\t" + lab5 + "\t\t" + bonus5 + "\t\t\t" + total5);
        }
}

---
///////////////////////\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
     == Student Points ==
\\\\\\\\\\\\\////////////////////////

Name		Lab		Bonus		Total

----		---		-----		-----

Rue		 45		  5			50

Archer	 40		  8			48

Maya Ray	 38		 10		   48

John		 50		  7			57

Jake		 42		  6			48





2 - The following program reads three integers and prints the average. Fill in the blanks
so that it will work correctly. (2 marks)

// *******************************************************************
// Average.java

//
// Read three integers from the user and print their average
// *******************************************************************

import java.util.Scanner;
public class Average
{
public static void main(String[] args)
{
int val1, val2, val3;
double average;
Scanner scan = new Scanner(System.in) ;

// get three values from user
System.out.println("Please enter three integers and " +
"I will compute their average");

        System.out.println("Please enter three integers and " +
                "I will compute their average.\n");
       
        System.out.print("Enter the first value: ");
        val1 = scan.nextInt();

        System.out.print("Enter the second value: ");
        val2 = scan.nextInt();

        System.out.print("Enter the third value: ");
        val3 = scan.nextInt();

//compute the average

        average = (val1 + val2 + val3) / 3.0;

//print the average

        System.out.println("The average is " + average + ".");

}
}

Sample Output


Please enter three integers and I will compute their average.


Enter the first value: 5

Enter the second value: 2

Enter the third value: 7

The average is 4.666666666666667.

---

Please enter three integers and I will compute their average.


Enter the first value: 5

Enter the second value: 14

Enter the third value: 40

The average is 19.666666666666668.



3 -  Write an application that converts miles to kilometers.(One mile equals 1.60935 km).
Read the miles from the user as a floating point value.
(2 marks)

import java.util.Scanner;
public class question_3 {
public static void main(String[] args){
double miles;
double kilometers;

        Scanner scan = new Scanner(System.in);

        System.out.println("Enter the distance in miles: ");
        miles = scan.nextDouble();   // It reads floating point value

        // Converting miles into kilometers
        kilometers = miles * 1.60935;

        System.out.println(miles + " miles is equal to " + kilometers + " kilometers.");
    }
}

---

Enter the distance in miles:

54

54.0 miles is equal to 86.9049 kilometers.



4 -  Write an application that prompts for and reads integer representing the length of a
square’s side, then prints the square’s perimeter and area.
(2 marks)

import java.util.Scanner;
public class question_4 {
public static void main(String[] args){
int side;
int perimeter;
int area;

        Scanner scan = new Scanner(System.in); // Creating Scanner object to read input from keyboard

        System.out.println("Enter the length of the square's side: ");
        side = scan.nextInt(); // It reads the side length entered by the user

        // Calculate the perimeter and area
        perimeter = 4 * side;
        area = side * side;

        System.out.println("Perimeter of the square: " + perimeter);
        System.out.println("Area of the square: " + area);
    }
}

---

Enter the length of the square's side:

8

Perimeter of the square: 32

Area of the square: 64



5 -  Write an application that prompts and reads the numerator and denominator of a
fraction as integers and then prints the decimal equivalent of the fraction.
(3 marks)

import java.util.Scanner;
public class question_5 {
public static void main(String[] args){

        int numerator;
        int denominator;
        double decimalValue;

        Scanner scan = new Scanner(System.in);

        System.out.println("Enter the numerator: ");
        numerator = scan.nextInt();  // Reads the numerator

        System.out.println("Enter the denominator: ");
        denominator = scan.nextInt();  // Reads the denominator

        // Converting into decimal
        decimalValue = (double) numerator / denominator;

        System.out.println("The decimal equivalent is: " + decimalValue);
    }
}

---

Enter the numerator:

6

Enter the denominator:

7

The decimal equivalent is: 0.8571428571428571


